Today we will talk about bank's insurance
policy versus personal retail policy, meaning
if you take a policy from the bank, then it has
some advantages and disadvantages and
personal retail policies are also available which have
some advantages and disadvantages of their own.
Usually you people ask the question whether it is
right to take a policy through the bank or not,
so I am going to answer this in this video today.
Before starting the video, I would like to introduce myself.
My name is Gurleen Kaur Tikku. I am a
Certified Financial Planner. Every week I
bring videos for you so that you can have happiness on
your husband and the tagline of our company is
also 'Creating a Wealth's
Happiness'. Before starting the video, I would
like to give a reminder if you have
not yet subscribed to our channel, do
subscribe so that you get the right information.
Insurance policy versus personal retail
individual policy. So first of all, let's talk about
what kind of policy is available through the bank. Usually, it is a
group health insurance policy.
Basically, this
type of group is formed and
given instructions. Very common
examples: Now, let's look at insurance provided in your office. It's
also called corporate insurance, group health insurance, and
insurance. Your employer is
paying for it because it's all office employees. So,
a similar type of group is formed.
What happens in a bank insurance policy?
All the bank account holders
who already have accounts with the
bank are eligible to
take the policy. So, a group health
insurance policy is offered there.
What banks do is they tie up
with some insurance companies and
negotiate on the price and terms and conditions.
They
create plans for their policyholders,
which only the bank will offer. If you
go to an insurance company and
say, "I want that plan," the
insurance company won't give it to you.
You'll have to get that plan through a specific bank. They have a
tie-up with the bank.
Different banks offer different types of plans to different insurance companies.
So sorry
example is a bank, if
you are getting a policy through it, it is not necessary that you will get a
policy with the same features or price through another bank, it can be
different because that
bank has negotiated for you, the bank has
customized a product, so it is a
specific product of this bank, but for example, if it is
of this bank, then it is a specific product of ICC Bank only,
you will
not get it in HDFC, Yes Bank or any other bank,
it is their product which
they have typed with the insurance company,
so first of all the point is clear, this is group
health insurance and it is tied up
with the insurance company which
provides you the insurance, so first let us
talk about these bank policies,
what are its features, first of all we have talked about
group health insurance policy and
because of its premium, like
what happens in employer employment, usually the
employer pays the premium,
not the employee, here you pay the premium,
SN account holder, so you
get the benefit of 80%, that too you
will pay the premium, 80% on  The term
is fixed, you cannot tailor it to something plus mine. The
short term is usually
fixed, that is, you will get this much time only. There are
not many options for riders, which
means there is a lot of flexibility in terms
of what you want and what you don't want in the policies. It is
a fixed
product, you are free to do only that.
Next, you
can add dependents to this policy if you want to. It depends on
your family size. The next
point is, usually, there is no medical checkup
required when you are taking a bank policy.
Now let's talk about the
advantage of a bank policy. What is the advantage of
taking a bank policy? What is the advantage of
taking a policy through a bank? So, the first advantage is that the
bank policy is low cost. Usually,
you will get a policy at a
lower price than the retail individual insurance policy from outside.
Because as I told you, banks
negotiate for pricing
because they are giving a large number of policy
holders to the insurance company. So, they can
negotiate on the price and
come up with customized products. The second advantage is  It is
that here the waiting period for pre-existing diseases is
usually less, that is, if
you have existing conditions, then the
waiting period is less. Thirdly, the
undertaking for pre-existing diseases is
linear, meaning if you are
not getting a policy outside or there is any such
restriction where the meeting period is getting
longer, the loading is getting longer,
then here a
few lines are
printed for free existing conditions. Fourth, take one advantage,
take one benefit, medical checkup is
not required in the policy. Mostly,
this will be a matter of advantage, but there will be some
disadvantages also, due to which there is a discussion whether one
should take a bank policy or not. Now we will talk about
what are the disadvantages. First of all, the
disadvantage is that the insurance
policy of the bank, this is not a permanent policy, which
means you will get the policy of the bank as long as
their tenure is with the insurance company, for
example, X Bank.  The tyre is a tyre
company and an insurance company has
designed a particular product and is
giving it to its account holders. Now what happened
when you went for next year renewal and the bank
said that our policy has expired
with our tyre, that is why we were giving you this
price and this policy,
now our policy has come from another company, so there is a
challenge for you that
you will not be able to continue that policy on time
because the bank is not offering it, that
policy has expired. Between the bank and the company, if you
want, you can convert it into a retail policy with that company,
but for example,
you can enroll in any other product of a company which offers detailed indie visuals, but
you had accepted the terms and conditions of that product,
later you had
agreed on a premium of Rs 10,000 that I will
run this policy, when you
went for next renewal and you found out that the tyre has expired
and its premium in retail has
increased by approximately Rs 25,000, so it was a shock for you when
you agreed to some such terms and conditions.
How did that change happen because that policy is
not permanent, it has also been seen
that along with the bank, the policy of many insurance
companies changes its policy, it gets
revised, so because of that the policy
holders have to go through this process, they have to
convert it to another policy or convert it to a retail policy, so
in such situations, on renewal,
usually the bank will give you the option that we
had another policy, take that policy, so
here there is a net loss for you, the second
disadvantage which is a big disadvantage,
you know that in 2020, guidelines were
issued that you can port the insurance policy
from one end and shoulder to another,
but your group health insurance policy
which is your bank policy, you cannot port it, no
one will
accept it, the portability
guidelines, so if suppose, if you have continued
a policy of the bank for 5 years,
you want to do your
personal policy for 60 years, then how will you be able to
port that bank policy, so
retail individual policy there is a
constant  You can convert it to another company, suppose you had a
policy of X company, now you can enter the details policy of X company, if you
want then you
cannot port it to the details policy of X company,
you will have to take a new policy and
start fresh, which is not
advisable, so if you are continuing the old policy now then
you will not be
able to convert it, this is a big design bandage, thirdly
this is the advantage, usually pay rights are
not offered here today, it is a fixed
product, you can take only this product, you can
avail only the features that are available in it, so
if you want to customize something, you want to
take some riders, then you cannot do that, and for example, the
policy which the bank is providing has a
room limit, you want to remove all the limits,
but you do not have any rider, there is
no option because it is a
fixed plan, you
cannot change the pay location here and there is a
big problem of customer support, so bank bill
note B and customer support, if you say that a
claim comes tomorrow then you will
not get the customer support of the bank, you will get it
directly from the insurance company  You have to
coordinate. If you have taken a
policy directly from an insurance company,
if there is an intermediate, an agent or a
wallet, then they can help you at the
time of cleaning, here you will have to do everything yourself. Usually, the
customer support of group insurance is also different in most of the cases,
you have to work at a different place,
so this is also a disadvantage. So
here, if you ask whether you should
take a bank policy, then to take a personal insurance
policy,
first you need your personal details. The
next policy is a permanent contract
which you are entering into with the insurance company.
Because there is no permanent contract, there is a
change in it. If you want
additional insurance, or lower cost, then you can take a
bank policy, but your
primary policies should be
taken from a personal insurance company only. So, in the
future, these policies should not come in the future.
This happens in women,
due to some existing conditions, you are
not able to get a policy in personal insurance. In such a situation,
we suggest that you create a health fund.
If the bank gives you printing, then  It is
offering a policy with conditions, but it is offering it to you. So,
if you are absolutely healthy, fit and
fine, you don't have any medical conditions
and can afford it, then of course you can opt for a
personal individual policy
because it is going to stay with you for a long term. It is
your permanent policy. Where
it is a bank policy, it is not a permanent policy. So,
normally in the bank also, you should not make a
blind fit. Here also,
you have to apply the same rules that you apply while
buying a personal individual policy, that is, you have to give full
disclosure
regarding your medical information. If they
ask for it, you have to give it. And
you are also filling the proposal form yourself.
Usually, what will happen is that when you go to the bank,
they will say sign it and
we will take the premium amount from your account and
your policy will become active. Do not make such a mistake.
If any of your existing conditions are not mentioned in the form, then at the
time of cleansing, you will definitely face a challenge.
So, these rules are standard
universal rules.  Both the policies are
applicable, whether you
want to take a personal policy or a policy, then take
special care of these things so that you do
not face any problem at the time of cleaning, the
purpose of taking these policies is your health and bravery
policy, do you religiously take it, just
like you put Diodalis in your phone, when you go on a
holiday, you work very hard, do a
lot of research, similarly take it for health and
security as well and think carefully, this was
from my side, bank policy vs personal
policy, whatever be your feedback, whatever be your
experience, it will
help those who share it and if you want to give any feedback,
please do give it and you should
also tell us on what the next video should be made
and before going, a quick reminder, if
you have not subscribed to our channel yet, do
subscribe so that you get the right
information at the right time, see you
next week with a new video, space take
care bye bye